Structured Logging Epic - Topi Antelope (GSI-527) (#93)
ghga-de/epic-docs: 45-topi-antelope/technical_specification.md

# Structured Logging Tools (Topi Antelope)
**Epic Type:** Implementation Epic

Epic planning and implementation follow the
[Epic Planning and Marathon SOP](https://docs.ghga-dev.de/main/sops/sop001_epic_planning.html).

**Attention: Please do not put any confidential content here.**

## Scope
### Outline:
The aim of this epic is to implement tools that enable consistent structured logging,
with the result being a set of minimally-invasive, configurable logging tools. The
logging functionality is not meant to live within providers or protocols within hexkit,
but rather be provided as a utility similar to the basic correlation ID functionality.
In addition, `uvicorn` needs to be configured such that its formatting is consistent
with other logs.

### Included/Required:
- Logging Tools in Hexkit
- Consolidating Uvicorn Logging
- Pilot Repository

### Not Included:
- Updating services to use new logging tools.

## Additional Implementation Details:

### Logging Tools in `Hexkit`
There needs to be a way to easily invoke a logger object with minimal boilerplate code.
There should also be a dedicated logging configuration class that subclasses `BaseSettings`.

> The configuration should at least include the log level for the service.

Reviewer: Maybe also include the service name and the service instance id in the config?

Author: 👍 I didn't think that would work since it's already in the KafkaConfig, but it seems to be okay. That will simplify a couple things.

When employing loggers in a service, it should be as easy as calling a function with a logger

> name as an argument and then using the object to log as needed.

Reviewer: I don't understand what is meant by this but happy to wait for the code :)

Reviewer: However, I would avoid adding logging details to function signatures if this is what you have meant. Moreover, I currently don't see a need for multiple loggers, or do we need it?

Author: No, what I was referring to was instantiating a logger at the top of a module in order to use it throughout the module as needed. Usually you would call `logging.getLogger()` (maybe with `__name__` or something as an arg), then do the basic config before using it. What I meant here was that our logger(s) should be just as simple to use.

The logs should be emitted in a JSON string format (one line). An example log message is as
follows (formatted for ease of reading):

```json
{
	"timestamp": "2023-12-04T15:30:00Z",
	"service": "ucs",
	"instance": "001",
	"level": "ERROR",
	"correlation_id": "d826361b-3734-4590-b3e8-3cbed68b9236",
	"message": "The file with ID 123xyz is already in the inbox.",
    "details": {
		"file_id": "123xyz"
	}
}
```
Additional configurable properties could include a way to disable uvicorn integration
(e.g. for easier reading during development), or a format string that can be used to override

> the JSON output format.

Reviewer: I like that. If it is simple to implement, we could also have a json_log_format boolean parameter in the config to switch between JSON and non-JSON (more readable) logging.

Author: That sounds reasonable to me

To summarize, this task includes all items in `hexkit`:
- Logging Configuration Class
- Logger factory
- The subclass implementations of any support `logging` classes, such as
Formatter and LoggerAdapter.

### Consolidating Uvicorn Logging

> `ghga-service-commons` needs to be modified so uvicorn's logging configuration can be changed.

Reviewer: We want to use the same logging config as in hexkit, right?
```suggestion
`ghga-service-commons` needs to be modified so uvicorn's logging can be configured using the same
config model used in hexkit.
```
